GCQ3: What is the capacity of Subsea Cable System?
10 points
Due Aug 11, 2024
Go through the videos and reference links on how the Internet traffic is carried across the globe by various subsea cable systems and answer the following questions in 300-500 words in total: a) The capacity and number of landing points of one of the largest and fattest cable systems? b) Does any Content Providers like Google, Facebook or Microsoft own or part of any such subsea cable systems? c) Who owns these cables systems in general and what could be their business model (i.e., how do they make money)?






a) The largest and fattest cable system is 2Africa.  If is having  the capacity of 180 terabits per second and having 46 landing points across 33 countries. The 2Africa spans over 45000 km, which makes it longest subsea cable in the world. For the regions to which it connects  if fulfills the massive data needs due to its high capacity.  As it is spread over 33 countries  it provides support to Africa, Europe, the Middle East and South Asia. 


b) Yes, Facebook is directly involved in development and ownership of 2Africa subsea cable system and also involves members as Orange, China mobile, Vodaphone, ASN. Facebook also invested in Marea cable subsea system.
Google has invested in  Equiano, Curie, Grace Hopper cables and Dunant subsea cables.
For the betterment of Azure cloud services and other services Microsoft has invested in Marea cables. Microsoft invested in other subsea cables too.


c)Subsea cable systems are generally owned by a consortium of stakeholders which can include telecommunications companies, ISPs (Internet Service Provider) and content providers. The costs associated with laying and maintaining of the cables in subsea cable system is shared by the stakeholders.  These can be owned in consortium or owned privately. For sharing of cable cost and cable capacity many cables are owned in consortium of multiple companies. Strong tech companies like Google, Facebook are independently or partially owning the cable system which provides them better control over subsea cable system. 
They make money by selling the capacity on the cable to other companies. By leasing the bandwidth to the telecom companies, Internet service providers and other enterprises this can be done. The strong players like content providers can also lease the capacity of but considering that their services should run nicely which will keep better performance of their services on the same side revenue is also generated by leasing the capacity of the cable.